Create quiz4.md (#7)
ReDI-School/js-berlin-2019-fall: quizzes/quiz4.md

# Week 4:

## PRACTICAL PART:

### 1. Valid or invalid, how to fix it?

#### A.

```js
let johnsAge = "12";
let janesAge = 12;

> console.log( johnsAge === janesAge);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
console.log(johnsAge === janesAge);
```

```

Valid, but not what we had in mind. Although John and Jane have the same age, the output is false. Because johnsAge is a string and janesAge is a number and for === comparison operator to return true, first and for most operands need to be of the same type. This means we need to convert one type of value into another type of value. In this case, we can convert string into a number. To achieve that we can use the parseInt function.

```js
let johnsAge = "12";
let janesAge = 12;

> console.log( parseInt(johnsAge) === janesAge);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
console.log(parseInt(johnsAge) === janesAge);
```

```

#### B.

```js
let johnsAge = "10";
let janesAge = 20;
let totalAge = johnsAge + janesAge;
console.log(totalAge);
```

> Valid but not what we had in mind. We expected to see 30 but got 1020 instead. Because, JavaScript does string concatenation when one of the operands has string type. To fix this issue, we need to use parseInt function, which converts a string value into a number value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valid but not what we had in mind. We expected to see 30 but got 1020 instead. This behaviour is due to the following, JavaScript does string concatenation when one of the operands is a string type. To fix this issue, we need to use the `parseInt` function, which converts a string value into a number value.
```

```js
let johnsAge = "10";
let janesAge = 20;
let totalAge = parseInt(johnsAge) + janesAge;
console.log(totalAge);
```

#### C.

```html
<p id="1">hi</p>
<p id="1">bye</p>
```

> Valid, but if we want the text content of second paragraph element using its id, it won't work. Because in an HTML document, you must have unique ids for your elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valid, but if we want the text content of second paragraph element using its id, it won't work. To fix this, you must have unique ids for your elements, in your HTML document .
```

```html
<p id="1">hi</p>
<p id="2">bye</p>
```

#### D.

```js
let veryLongVariableNameToProveAPoint = "hello";
let veryLongVariableNameToProveAPoint = veryLongVariableNameToProveAPoint + " john";
```

Valid, but there is a shorter way of typing that. In a similar situation, use this one.

```js
let veryLongVariableNameToProveAPoint = "hello";
let veryLongVariableNameToProveAPoint += " john";
```

#### E.

```html
<input id="age" type="number" value="10" />
<script>
    let age = document.getElementById('age');
    age = age.value;
    console.log(age);
</script>
```

> Valid. But not a good practice. Because here we are using the age variable first to access the input element which is of type object, and then we are using the same variable to access the content of the value attribute which is of type string. Using the same variable name for two different objects is not a good idea. Always use separate variable names for different objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Valid. But not a good practice. Here we are using the age variable first to access the input element which is of type object, and then we are using the same variable to access the content of the value attribute which is of type string. Using the same variable name for two different objects is not a good idea. Always use separate variable names for different objects.
```

```html
<input id="age" type="number" value="10" />
<script>
    let ageElement = document.getElementById('age');
    let age = ageElement.value;
    console.log(age);
</script>
```

or use a shortcut if you are only interested in getting the content of the value attribute:

```html
<input id="age" type="number" value="10" />
<script>
    let age = document.getElementById('age').value;
    console.log(age);
</script>
```

#### F. What does the following code output?

```html
<input id="name" type="text" value="John" />
<script>
    let nameElement = document.getElementById('name');
    console.log(nameElement.id);
    console.log(nameElement.type);
    console.log(nameElement.value);
</script>
```

## THEORETICAL PART:

> ### 1. Let's review the new terms we learnt in this week.

Reviewer 2: ### 1. Let's review the new terms we learned in this week.

> ### 1. Let's review the new terms we learnt in this week.

Author: ```suggestion
### 1. Let's review the new terms we learned in this week.
```

**HTML Object Property**

Although we have used this concept in our examples, we have not introduced it yet. In last week's review, we talked about the relation between an HTML Element and an HTML Object. There is a similar link between an HTML attribute and an HTML Object property. Let's work on this topic with the help of an example. Assuming that we have the following code in our HTML file:

```html
<input id="name" type="text" />
```

We want to extract the value the user has entered into this input field. How can we do this? In JavaScript we can access the input element using its id:

```js
let nameElement = document.getElementById('name');
```

> Now we have a **"go-to person"** (nameElement) for making enquires about our object. This input element has two attributes, id and type. How can we get the content of a specific attribute. When an object contains many values, we use predefined names to access individual values and we use a **.** operator to do that. A predefined name and a value together is called a **property** of an object. So in our example, we use the following code in JavaScript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have a **"go-to person"** (`nameElement`) for making enquires about our object. This input element has two attributes, id and type. How can we get the content of a specific attribute. When an object contains many values, we use predefined names to access individual values and we use a **.** operator to do that. A predefined name and a value together is called a **property** of an object. So in our example, we use the following code in JavaScript:
```

|**In HTML**|**In JavaScript**|
|-----------|-----------------|
|HTML Element|HTML Object     |
|HTML Attribute|HTML Object Property|

Properties are our ways of manipulating our HTML page dynamically. If you are curios about what kind of properties each HTML object supports, you can do one of the following:

- Either read the [specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org#htmlelement)
- Or use console.dir(element)
- Or use dev tools of your browser: 
    1. Go to elements tab
    2. Open the DOM properties panel. 

---

**textContent**

When we have an input element, we can use its value attribute to get the content of that field. But how can we get the text content of the following element and also eventually change it?

```html
<div id="message">No messages</div>
```

In this case we use the textContent property of our object. First we need to get our go-to person:

```js
let messageElement = document.getElementById("message");
```

Then we can access the text content like this:

```js

> messageElement.textContent; // No messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messageElement.textContent; // "No messages"
```

```

To change the content of the `<div>` element, we use:

```js
messageElement.textContent = "You have two new messages";
```

---

**onEnrollClicked()**

> We have defined this function in our kinder garden program. Did you notice that we did not call this function in our JavaScript file. Because this is a special kind of function which gets called by the browser. It is called an event handler in JavaScript. An event handler is a function which gets called automatically by the browser and has the following characteristics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have defined this function in our kindergarten program. Did you notice that we did not call this function in our JavaScript file? This is a special kind of function which gets called by the browser. It is called an event handler in JavaScript. An event handler is a function which gets called automatically by the browser and has the following characteristics:
```

1. This function does not have a return value. [When you set a button's click handler, the code that sets it generally doesn't want to interact with the click handler later in time when a click occurs. It's a set and forget operation. In other words, event handlers are usually fairly closed pieces of code that don't depend on anything other than the event that just occurred and the global state of the program.](https://www.i-programmer.info/programming/javascript/12416-javascript-async-the-callback-a-the-controller.html?start=1)
2. We need to create a link between an event (**click event**) and the function (**onEnrollClicked**) using the object (**button element**) where this event happens. This is called registering an event handler. We registered this event handler in HTML like this:

```html
<button id="enroll" onclick="onEnrollClicked()">enroll</button>
```

We could have registered it in our JavaScript file as well:

```js
let enrollElement = document.getElementById("enroll");
enrollElement.onclick = onEnrollClicked;
```

---

**Math.random()**

> Use this function when you need to generate random numbers in your code. Usually we use this function in combination with another math function Math.floor() to produce whole numbers. For example to produce numbers between 0 and 99:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this function when you need to generate random numbers in your code. Usually we use this function in combination with another math function `Math.floor()` to produce whole numbers. In order to produce numbers between 0 and 99:
```
